OK so let's have a look at this solution for how many customers made a booking in October 2017.
So first of all let's find out how many customers we actually have in our database and we can do that
by selecting from the Customers table select select counts store from customers.
So this is just going to count the number of rows of data in our customers table which is obviously
going to be the number of customers we have in our database.
So you can see we have 120 customers in total in our database.
So now we need to find out how many actually made a booking in October 2017.
So obviously we want to look at the bookings table so that select from bookings.
And if we run this you can see we have an ID column a screening ID and then a customer ID.
So we were interested in this customer I.D. and you can see that we have customer I.D. 2 4 6 say etc
etc and we have.
I'm sure we have some repeating rows where customers have made multiple bookings.
So you can see here Id 19 has a customer id of 12 and so does ID 6 also has a customer id of 12.
So obviously if a customer didn't make a booking then they're not going to be showing up that customer
I.D. will not show up in the booking table.
And if they had multiple bookings then they're going to show up multiple times in the booking table.
So what we can do to find out how many of the customers made a booking in October 2017 is simply just
to count on the number of distinct customer IDs we have in the bookings table.
So we can do that by typing select counts.
And then in brackets this stinks.
I remember distinctly Lowney we'll get rid of any duplicate values of data.
So if we do distinct customer id this will get rid of any duplicate customer IDs we have in the bookings
table room bookings.
So select count on the number of distinct customer id values from the bookings table.
So if we run this you can see we have 105.
So 105 out of 120 customers actually made a booking in October 2017.
And we can tidy up the column name.
We can say as number of customers.
And then if we run gets rid of the count distinct column name and replaces it with number of customers.
OK so that was a fairly simple solution to what could have been quite a complicated question or complicated
answer.
So if you got the same solution as me then that's great.
If you go to a different solution which gave you value or gave you an ounce of 105.
And you say brilliant if he was able to get the answer then I hope you understood after this video how
I was able to get the answer.
But if you still have some questions on this challenge then please ask in the Q and A section.